mvp.adoc, before:

= MVP
Information about what is included in the MVP for Trusted Software Supply Chain (TSSC).

== Workflows
(Embed workflow diagrams here)

=== Abstract

The following table lists chosen tooling for the TSSC MVP implementation.  A separate document will be used to list all implementations as the progress moves forward.  See diagram for system architecture.

=== Java (Backend)

TODO: (Describe the Java backend application architecture)

=== JavaScript (Frontend)

TODO: (Describe the Javascript frontend application architecture)

== Tooling

.Tooling by Workflow Implimentation
[cols="a,a,a",options="header"]
|===
| Purpose
2+| Tools by Workflow Type

|
h| *Java (Backend)*
h| *JavaScript (Frontend)*

| Source Control 
2+| https://github.com/go-gitea/gitea[Gitea]

| Container Orchestration
2+| Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4 (OCP)

| Identity Management
2+| Red Hat Single Sign-On (RH SSO) (KeyCloak)

| Artifact Repository
2+| https://jfrog.com/open-source/[JFrog Artifactory]

| Image Registry
2+| Red Hat Quay (+ Clair)

| Continuous Integration
2+|
* Jenkins
* Tekton

| Continuous Deployment
2+| https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd/[ArgoCD]

| Security Static Code Analysis
| SonarQube
| SonarQube

| Linting Satic Code Analysis
| SonarQube
| SonarQube

| Unit Testing
| Junit
|
* TBD
** Mocha?
** Jest?
** ?

| Build
| Maven
| N/A

| Static Compliance Container Image Scanning
| OpenSCAP
| OpenSCAP

| Static Vulnerability Container Image Scanning
| OpenSCAP
| OpenSCAP

| UAT
| Cucumber
| Selenium

| Runtime Vulnerability Scanning
|
* TBD
** OWASP compliant (might be within CI tool)
|
* TBD
** OWASP compliant (might be within CI tool)

| Canary Testing
a| Selenium
a| Selenium

| Development Workflow (IDE)
a| TBD
a| TBD
|===

== Infrastrcture

=== Sizing
.Conterized Tool Sizing
[cols="a,a,a,a",options="header"]
|===
| Tool
| CPUs
| Memmory (GB)
| Sizing Source

| Red Hat SSO
|
|
|

| JFrog Artifactory OSS
| 4
| 4
| https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/System+Requirements#SystemRequirements-RecommendedHardware[JFrog Artifactory Docs - Recommended Hardware]

| JFrog Artifactory OSS - DB (PostgreSQL)
| 2
| 2
| WAG since https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/System+Requirements#SystemRequirements-RecommendedHardware[JFrog Artifactory Docs - Recommended Hardware] provides no recomendation

| Red Hat Quay - Basic
| 2
| 4
| https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_quay/3.2/html/deploy_red_hat_quay_-_basic/preparing_for_red_hat_quay_basic#prerequisites[Quay Docs - Preparing for Red Hat Quay Basic - Prerequisites]

| Red Hat Quay - Basic - DB (Cruncy Data PostgrSQL)
| 
| 
| 

| Red Hat Clair
|
|
|

| Tekton
|
|
|

| Jenkins Master
| 2
| 2
| WAG based on experince.

| Jenkins Works
| Variable
| Variable
| 

| ArgoCD
|
|
|

| SonarQube
| 2
| 2
| WAG sicne https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/requirements/hardware-recommendations/[SonarQube official docs] offers no suggestion

| SonarQube DB (PostgreSQL)
| 2
| 2
| WAG sicne https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/requirements/hardware-recommendations/[SonarQube official docs] offers no suggestion

| Cucumber
| N/A (embeded in CI container)
| N/A (embeded in CI container)
|
|===

.Red Hat OpenShift Sizing
[cols="a,a,a,a",options="header"]
|===
| Node
| CPUs
| Memmory (GB)
| Sizing Source

| Master 0
| 4
| 16
| https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/scalability_and_performance/recommended-host-practices.html#master-node-sizing_[OCP 4 Docs - Master Node Sizing]

| Master 1
| 4
| 16
| https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/scalability_and_performance/recommended-host-practices.html#master-node-sizing_[OCP 4 Docs - Master Node Sizing]

| Master 2
| 4
| 16
| https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/scalability_and_performance/recommended-host-practices.html#master-node-sizing_[OCP 4 Docs - Master Node Sizing]

| Infra 0
| 8
| 24
| WAG based on OCP 3 recomendations since infra nodes for OCP 4 are just starting to become a thing again.

| Infra 1
| 8
| 24
| WAG based on OCP 3 recomendations since infra nodes for OCP 4 are just starting to become a thing again.

| Infra 2
| 8
| 24
| WAG based on OCP 3 recomendations since infra nodes for OCP 4 are just starting to become a thing again.

| Compute 0
| 
|
|

| Compute 1
| 
|
|
|===

Commit message:

mvp - add rhsso sizing WAG

mvp.adoc, after:

= MVP
Information about what is included in the MVP for Trusted Software Supply Chain (TSSC).

== Workflows
(Embed workflow diagrams here)

=== Abstract

The following table lists chosen tooling for the TSSC MVP implementation.  A separate document will be used to list all implementations as the progress moves forward.  See diagram for system architecture.

=== Java (Backend)

TODO: (Describe the Java backend application architecture)

=== JavaScript (Frontend)

TODO: (Describe the Javascript frontend application architecture)

== Tooling

.Tooling by Workflow Implimentation
[cols="a,a,a",options="header"]
|===
| Purpose
2+| Tools by Workflow Type

|
h| *Java (Backend)*
h| *JavaScript (Frontend)*

| Source Control 
2+| https://github.com/go-gitea/gitea[Gitea]

| Container Orchestration
2+| Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4 (OCP)

| Identity Management
2+| Red Hat Single Sign-On (RH SSO) (KeyCloak)

| Artifact Repository
2+| https://jfrog.com/open-source/[JFrog Artifactory]

| Image Registry
2+| Red Hat Quay (+ Clair)

| Continuous Integration
2+|
* Jenkins
* Tekton

| Continuous Deployment
2+| https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd/[ArgoCD]

| Security Static Code Analysis
| SonarQube
| SonarQube

| Linting Satic Code Analysis
| SonarQube
| SonarQube

| Unit Testing
| Junit
|
* TBD
** Mocha?
** Jest?
** ?

| Build
| Maven
| N/A

| Static Compliance Container Image Scanning
| OpenSCAP
| OpenSCAP

| Static Vulnerability Container Image Scanning
| OpenSCAP
| OpenSCAP

| UAT
| Cucumber
| Selenium

| Runtime Vulnerability Scanning
|
* TBD
** OWASP compliant (might be within CI tool)
|
* TBD
** OWASP compliant (might be within CI tool)

| Canary Testing
a| Selenium
a| Selenium

| Development Workflow (IDE)
a| TBD
a| TBD
|===

== Infrastrcture

=== Sizing
.Conterized Tool Sizing
[cols="a,a,a,a",options="header"]
|===
| Tool
| CPUs
| Memmory (GB)
| Sizing Source

| Red Hat SSO
| 2
| 2
| WAG (https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3217681[Capacity planning, Sizing guide, Performance Tuning or Benchmarks for RH-SSO]

| JFrog Artifactory OSS
| 4
| 4
| https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/System+Requirements#SystemRequirements-RecommendedHardware[JFrog Artifactory Docs - Recommended Hardware]

| JFrog Artifactory OSS - DB (PostgreSQL)
| 2
| 2
| WAG since https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/System+Requirements#SystemRequirements-RecommendedHardware[JFrog Artifactory Docs - Recommended Hardware] provides no recomendation

| Red Hat Quay - Basic
| 2
| 4
| https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_quay/3.2/html/deploy_red_hat_quay_-_basic/preparing_for_red_hat_quay_basic#prerequisites[Quay Docs - Preparing for Red Hat Quay Basic - Prerequisites]

| Red Hat Quay - Basic - DB (Cruncy Data PostgrSQL)
| 
| 
| 

| Red Hat Clair
|
|
|

| Tekton
|
|
|

| Jenkins Master
| 2
| 2
| WAG based on experince.

| Jenkins Works
| Variable
| Variable
| 

| ArgoCD
|
|
|

| SonarQube
| 2
| 2
| WAG sicne https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/requirements/hardware-recommendations/[SonarQube official docs] offers no suggestion

| SonarQube DB (PostgreSQL)
| 2
| 2
| WAG sicne https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/requirements/hardware-recommendations/[SonarQube official docs] offers no suggestion

| Cucumber
| N/A (embeded in CI container)
| N/A (embeded in CI container)
|
|===

.Red Hat OpenShift Sizing
[cols="a,a,a,a",options="header"]
|===
| Node
| CPUs
| Memmory (GB)
| Sizing Source

| Master 0
| 4
| 16
| https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/scalability_and_performance/recommended-host-practices.html#master-node-sizing_[OCP 4 Docs - Master Node Sizing]

| Master 1
| 4
| 16
| https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/scalability_and_performance/recommended-host-practices.html#master-node-sizing_[OCP 4 Docs - Master Node Sizing]

| Master 2
| 4
| 16
| https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/scalability_and_performance/recommended-host-practices.html#master-node-sizing_[OCP 4 Docs - Master Node Sizing]

| Infra 0
| 8
| 24
| WAG based on OCP 3 recomendations since infra nodes for OCP 4 are just starting to become a thing again.

| Infra 1
| 8
| 24
| WAG based on OCP 3 recomendations since infra nodes for OCP 4 are just starting to become a thing again.

| Infra 2
| 8
| 24
| WAG based on OCP 3 recomendations since infra nodes for OCP 4 are just starting to become a thing again.

| Compute 0
| 
|
|

| Compute 1
| 
|
|
|===
